Introduction

German Noun Gender Trainer (GNGT) is a small application which helps German 
learners memorize genders of German nouns through memorizing their 
corresponding definite articles (der, die or das).

Usage

Before you can start using the program, you should add some nouns and set their 
genders. You can do so by selecting the "edit nouns" option from the file menu. 
You can modify the nouns later in the same way.

It's not recommended to add compound nouns because the GUI won't fit long 
nouns, and memorizing the gender of the last part of a compound noun is 
sufficient.

After adding some nouns, you can start using the program which would test you 
by giving you some random noun (i.e. Buch) and you should supply the correct 
corresponding definite article (which is in this case 'das'). If you made a 
mistake, you'll get a corrective feedback. And either ways, you'll get another 
random noun afterwards, and so on.

Advanced Usage

All nouns are stored in a text file named 'nouns.txt' which character encoding 
is UTF-8. You can edit the file manually but it's recommended for you to edit 
the nouns using the GUI because the default character encoding on some 
operating systems isn't UTF-8, which means that you have to specify this 
character encoding when saving the file instead of just saving it using default 
options.

The nouns file (noun.txt) should be placed in the same directory in which GNGT 
is.

The nouns file should contain some nouns, each in a different line composed of 
the singular form of the noun preceded by it's corresponding definite article 
(i.e. 'das Buch' (without the quotes)). Note that erroneous lines will be 
reported by the program at startup and you'll be prompted to fix or ignore each 
of them.

When the program exits, all nouns but those that were ignored get written to 
the nouns file. This means that ignoring nouns at startup leads to deleting 
them.

Developing

GNGT is released under GNU LGPL version 3 or (at your option) any later version.

GNGT is a Qt4 application, and is tested with Qt v4.7.0.

GNGT source git repository can be found at: https://github.com/lawand/gngt

Disclaimers

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under 
the terms of the GNU Lesser Public License as published by the Free Software 
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later 
version.

GNGT is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

For more information, check out the GNU General Public license found in the 
COPYING file and the GNU Lesser Public license found in the COPYING.LESSER file.

Qt is a trademark of Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiaries in Finland and 
other countries

Official Site

GNGT's official website is: http://lawand.github.com/gngt/

Contact

GNGT is made, and currently maintained, by
Omar Lawand Dalatieh <lawand87@gmail.com>
